#summary For dumping ideas as they arrive.
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =

This page exists for jotting down any ideas that are had. An idea will take the form of a bullet point in the following list, and possibly a paragraph expansion, or some concept art.


= Ideas =

  * *Eyeroller enemy*
  * *Sentient pit*
  An enemy which acts as a connected set of pit or void tiles, growing in size with each actor it consumes. Would be mobile.
  * *Faux z-axis*
  May be interesting to show tiles scaled down in the background, possibly darker than those in the foreground. Idea was tied to the sentient pit, in which the player may witness an event where an enemy npc faction pushes some of its members off into the background, where they are consumed by the pit. _Edit: This looks really cool in motion._
  * *Bar/Rest area accessible from each dungeon level*
  Allow the player some way of entering this hang-out, either at any time or from the beginning of a level. It'll act as this game's Firelink or Sanctuary, possibly offering an assortment of NPCs, and maybe even a game of...
  * *Ternary Tic-Tac-Toe*
  For the uninitiated, Ternary Tic-Tac-Toe (TTTT) is a variant on the classic game, in which three players face off on an n by n grid with the following goals (turn order as listed):
  * X: Wins by placing n Xs in a row, column, or diagonal
  * O: Wins by placing n Os in a row, column, or diagonal
  * W: The wildcard, his marker counts as both an X and an O. As he cannot win, his main objective is to force a draw, as misery loves company.

  Here's a chance to show it off to the world! Here's how I envision it: two knights are having a quarrel at some table in the bar, when the player approaches. He's asked to act as the mediator between them as they settle their dispute. The player now finds himself playing the wildcard in a game of TTTT, with one of three outcomes. If he plays his role optimally, then the two knights unite in a mutual dislike of the player character. If one player triumphs over the other, the loser will murder the boasting victor at some point later on. These three outcomes may have an effect later in the game, but that can be decided later.
  * *Coin-sliding minigame*
  Break apart clusters of coins by firing one into the group. Drag and all that, probably similar to curling.
  * *Living Boulder*
  An enemy composed of a large rock body, and two rock weapons/limbs. Possibly disguised as terrain until activated, the two limbs float to the side of the main body and may be used as cudgels. When moving, the Boulder will fling its two limbs forward, then drag its main body into position (as if on an invisible tether). Should look heavy and cumbersome. Possibly a neutral enemy with ridiculously high damage reduction/mitigation.
  * *Four-Arm*
  Large enemy, wields 4 swords or axes. Lumbers towards the player, then swings its weapons in an unrelenting frenzy. Our high-health bruiser, I think. Maybe spawned in proximity to some bitchin' treasures.
  * *Anti-grouping enemy*
  So, the classical idea is that there's an enemy that alone is weak, but among others gains strength. What about the opposite? This enemy wants to stay away from others like it. When pushed close enough, they may snap together (like a magnet) and lose some agility, but perhaps gain power. Snapping enough of these guys together may slow the sum of their parts down to a crawl, leading to an easy dispatch. Might be fun to write, and fight!
  * *Fake Lighting*
  Did a little experimenting with "smart" tiles, which query the room for some actors in a given radius to determine their brightness or alpha level. A lighting effect could be accomplished with clever use of a gradient and clip box, perhaps it's worth looking into? Maybe a "Lightable" tile interface, and "LightCasting" object interface. This would open up opportunities for light-sensitive enemies.
  * *Russell Stovepipe*
  If the game ever advances to a narrative stage, I'd definitely like to explore this character. The player may start the game in a prison or work camp of some kind with an NPC named Russell. At some point or another will be a scene in which Russell rips a stovepipe off of a furnace and uses it as a weapon to aid in the player's escape. The character will grow a fondness towards the weapon, adopting the name Russell Stovepipe for a good amount of the game- he'll likely be a companion for the player through the first few dungeons. He'll split off from the player at some point, and reappear as a boss named Rusty Stranglechain much later, though the player should only realize this by discovering the iconic stovepipe in the next room. Rusty will, of course, totally fight with a bunch of chains: flailing, wrapping, slamming. We may be looking at a corruptive force at work here, who knows?
  * *Abyssal Dagger*
  Idea taken from Stone Crawl, a dagger or other weapon that has a chance of opening a rift to "the abyss," sucking any nearby actors or enemies into it. So, it has a chance to make the current fight trivially easy, but perhaps the player has to traverse the abyss later. Of course, he'd then have to encounter everything he sent to the abyss!
  * *Insect/Beetle*
  Played around with the horned helmet a little bit, was able to breathe a little life into the enemies wearing it by rotating the helmet by a tiny offset on each frame. The jitteryness reminded me of a beetle or something, and flipping the horns was not too far off from wings. I think I could have a decent-looking insect enemy with minimal effort, just jotting it down here for future reference.
  * *Key-per of Closed Doors*
  This guy might be fun to include, in addition to his arch nemesis.